Welcome to this course on enterprise
user interface development.
When we talk about enterprise
user interface development,
enterprise is just a word that means big,
right.
Big and
usually like long lived versus like,
the little like side project for
a weekend.
And with that comes a lot of extra like
bonus things to worry about, all right.
So let's talk about what this course is,
this is a course on how
to build infrastructure.
How to build the infrastructure needed
to manage a large code base supported by
a team of contributors.
That means ideally, not just you.
Usually, to the point where any code
base over a long enough period of time,
it's gonna get a few
unique qualities to it.
It is probably going to get big,
it is probably going to have a series of
choices that probably seemed
reasonable and good at the time.
And, in the fullness of time,
turns out to maybe have its edge cases,
right?
And there's lots of reasons for
that, and we'll talk about it.
But let's kind of talk about
some of these situations where,
if any of these statements resonate with
you, then this course might be for you.
So hypothetically,
maybe you've inherited an older code base,
right, who doesn't love that?
Maybe that code base has been
through let's call them,
changes in product direction, right?
What it was initially supposed to do,
maybe it's a different thing now.
Some of the most fun
code bases that I've had
the pleasure of working in
are usually the ones where.
Let's build this like proof
of concept like demo app
that we definitely shouldn't
bring to production.
What's that the CEO wants to
make the next big thing and
it's got to be out in a week, and
we're gonna bring it to production, right?
So you have some of those, you have ones
where maybe you were going one direction
and then you did like
a pivot in the direction now.
It's a totally different tack
that you're taking out and now
you have that kind of original foundation
that may no longer be serving you.
Yeah, maybe you're looking to migrate
from an older framework, I'm looking at
you backbone to whatever the new hotness
or whatever the hype cycle is these days.
And you want to be able to
like do that without like,
having your pager go off from now
until the end of eternity, right.
Or maybe and like I have been lucky enough
to get to do tis one once or twice.
Maybe you are breaking ground on a brand
new project, with no tech debt whats so
ever and you just want to start
things of on the right foot.
No matter what there is something
in the generalized strategy of
this course that would kind
of appeal to that, right?
The courses I work on now
it's not two years old yet
it's 17, 18 months maybe 19 months, right?
Even as I was preparing for
this there are already things and
a couple of basis not particularly old and
not.
Saddle was too much legacy,
where there are already things that like
some of the strategies that we're talking
about this workshop already applied to
the thing that I work on every day, right.
And there's always reasons there
are the initial plans you had even 18
months ago are no longer,
some of the things you're doing now.
I was, for some reason decided
to use a pre -â 1.0 framework, so
that came with a fun,
set of things to learn as well.
And then there's just the little mistakes
that don't seem like a big deal at
the time, for instance,
not failing the build on lint errors and
just getting warnings, or
the same thing for accessibility.
Then when you go to actually turn them on,
you realize that,
over the course of six months,
a bunch of well -meaning changes.
I saddled you with a bunch of debt
that you need to pay down, right?
So even in a relatively new codebase,
but especially, let's say pleasure.
Let's say I've had the pleasure
of working on like some front
end code bases that are like a decade old,
right?
There are a lot of those become
really difficult to manage and
difficult to maintain.
And we're gonna talk a little bit about
what the word like maintenance means, and
how do you maintain something and
some of the parts around that.
But first,
I should probably introduce myself.
My name is Steve,
I work on the frontend engineering
team at a company called Temporal.
When I started,
I was the frontend architect,
which at a startup is a fancy way to say.
The first front end engineer, and
I had it like my previous job so
I think they just like totally gave
me that title and make me feel good.
Now I run a team of about six or
seven depending on the day,
Front End engineers across two or
three of our various code bases,
whether it's their open source product.
Cloud based SaaS product,
the marketing website,
some other internal stuff as well.
And all those situations on that previous
slide from the changing product direction
to the thing that was probably
never supposed to go to production
to the like brand new codebase
to the decade old one I have.
Seeing those at various points.
And so, that kind of culminates today,
into like a set of practices and
strategies around
kind of starting to wrap your mind around.
They kind of just nuances
that come along with that.
So what are we gonna cover?
As you can imagine, having a relatively
decent testing strategy is
somewhat important if you're
going to make changes,
to a thing that you
cannot hold in your head.
So we will kind of talk a little bit about
some of the fundamentals of philosophy
of testing, and we're gonna run
the gamut from unit testing.
So your browser based tests would play,
right to some component tests
across different frameworks.
All those kinds of things get to the point
where, okay, we now know that we can touch
things, without worrying about something
else breaking off the other end.
We will talk about like how and
when to or to not to fake stuff, right?
Like, a lot of times in a perfect world
we would write end-to-end tests for
everything, I aspire to live
in that world one day, right?
A lot of times we have to square,
all the things that you've
written a blog post about like,
the right way to think about testing and
then you have to square that with reality.
And the fact that most of those things are
not possible at any kind of scale, right?
And so we kind of talk about,
like how to manage the kind of like,
platonic ideal of what
we're supposed to do
with like the reality of the code
that we live in every day.
We'll talk a little bit
like as we kinda go
through some of the setting
up this infrastructure.
When we can talk a little
bit about like okay,
what are some of the best practices or
at least let me rephrase that.
Best practices in my experience, for kind
of structuring and thinking about whether
it's components, whether it's the larger
architecture of your application.
And like where can we kind of
like learn from some of that.
Some of those, depending on whether or
not you are maintaining
a relatively old large codebase.
Or a brand new one that will have
different amounts of like applicability,
depends on those things but
we will at least kind of talk about that.
Cuz at one point like there will be
an opportunity to kind of leverage those.
And then, as we all know,
the real worst person on your team
is you six months ago, right.
The tied for second place is
everyone else on your team,
who does not put semicolons where you
like to have semicolons put right.
And how do we actually like not so
much about the semicolons,
I don't wanna have that discussion,
but like.
We actually need this abstraction and
we don't wanna just use let's say
hypothetically fetch or like.
Do we have a system to make sure that we
don't accidentally ship a console log all
the way to production or
something along those lines.
What are the ways to kind of like
maintain, and check these things?
Running theme all of our time together,
is going to be the fact that like,
a large enough codebase over
a long enough period of time.
You will not be able to hold
all this stuff in your head,
you will not be able to find everything
through every code review, right?
And so a big theme of our time together,
is that kind of last
bullet point down there.
Which is how to build the processes, that
make it so that you don't have to, right.
Because we tend to get mad at our
coworker who nitpicks all of our prs,
right, and
even I tend I'm the one that does that.
I eventually feel bad and just give in,
you know who doesn't give in,
automation, right?
And like people will argue with you, but
like they'll usually just take the fact
that the build fails and
deal with it, right?
Like eventually it might come to
a point where if your tests are flaky,
everything falls apart.
But generally speaking,
it is probably really good for
the health of your team to
have this stuff automated and
dispassionate about all these things or
whatever you agreed on and trying to like.
Use it to the point where
like it's serving you and
not necessarily like pedantic.